my name is Joe North I'm the vice
president of littoral ship systems we're
in Paris at urine eval which is the
largest naval show that is held within
Europe
this ship class in the US Navy is
replacing three three other ship classes
so we got one ship coming in replacing
three others those ships do mine warfare
those ships do ASW and those ships do
surface warfare what what if the
modularity concept is we can bring the
weapons and the technology develop it
off the ship on land and bring that back
to the ship when it's ready and it's
it's designed to a standard interface
which allows them to plug and play on
the ship
we worked with the Navy quite a bit at
the beginning clarifying what
requirements they really wanted to make
sure we really had a good understanding
and we also brought in a lot of crews
from other ships and said give us
feedback on what you would like to do
what what other tools and capability of
automation or engineering we can provide
for you
as I mentioned LCS one and three are
both delivered three was just
commissioned this past August she's out
in San Diego both home ported out there
LCS one's getting ready to deploy to
Singapore in the early 2013 time frame
we have LCS five seven nine and 11 in
construction up at the shipyard
Marinette
LCS is absolutely one of the best ships
in the world right now I said it's
creating quite a stir because of its
success hi my name is Tom cosgrove I
work in business development for
littoral ship systems
I think the inherent capabilities of
this ship meaning that it's three 3,500
tons or less that she has shallow-draft
it has some great functionality in the
stern ramp area of reconfigurable zones
those are the key features that I have
them interesting that and the fact that
it's proven for the US Navy Lockheed
Martin is very keen on understanding the
affordability requirements that the
international customers are placing on
us so to be competitive we must be cost
competitive and Lockheed Martin is
constantly looking for ways to reduced
costs to make the ships the most
important
national
because the ship is designed with
reconfigurable space for the US Navy
multi-mission modules what we're able to
do is take the mission set the
requirements that the Foreign Navy may
ask for and use the reconfigurable space
so that we can install fixed equipment
in the space where the empty space
essentially where it makes it easier to
modify the ship to the individual Navy's
needs I think the most useful and
probably most frequently used
operational feature would be the stern
ramp because of the stern ramp they're
able to launch rib boats 11 meter rib
boats quickly and safely I think is a
trend-setting feature and most navies
are finding that very attractive
freedom class is not only delivery we're
taking it to an international
partnership and we're looking for
another market overseas